 lost innocents: the children of war (tv movie 2006) - imdb imdb more all titles tv episodes names companies keywords characters quotes bios plots movies, tv & showtimes movies in theaters showtimes & tickets latest trailers coming soon release calendar top rated movies top rated indian movies most popular movies charts & trends box office oscar winners most popular by genre tv & video imdb tv on tonight top rated tv shows most popular tv shows watch now on amazon dvd & blu-ray special features imdb picks scary good amazon originals star wars on imdb celebs, events & photos celebs born today celebrity news most popular celebs photos latest stills latest posters photos we love events awards central oscars golden globes sundance cannes comic-con emmy awards venice film festival toronto film festival festival central tribeca all events news & community latest headlines melissa mccarthy to star in stx's puppet thriller 'the happytime murders' 16 hours ago paris jackson joins amazon’s david oyelowo thriller in film debut 16 hours ago clive owen, tom felton, george mackay join daisy ridley’s ‘ophelia’ 20 hours ago news top news movie news tv news celebrity news indie news community contributor zone polls watchlist your watchlist the leading information resource for the entertainment industry find industry contacts &amp; talent representation manage your photos, credits, &amp; more showcase yourself on imdb &amp; amazon go to imdbpro | help sign in with facebook other sign in options there was an error trying to load your rating for this title. some parts of this page won't work property. please reload or try later. full cast and crew | trivia | user reviews | imdbpro | more less share x share facebook twitter e-mail check in 0check in x beta i'm watching this! keep track of everything you watch; tell your friends. error please try again! added to your check-ins. view check in details full cast and crew release dates official sites box office/business company credits filming locations technical specs literature storyline taglines plot summary synopsis plot keywords parents guide related items newsdesk external sites opinion awards faq user reviews user ratings external reviews metacritic reviews photo & video photo gallery trailers and videos did you know? trivia goofs crazy credits quotes alternate versions connections soundtracks needs 5 ratings rate this lost innocents: the children of war&nbsp;(2006) documentary | tv movie 30 september 2006 add a plot&nbsp;&raquo; director: ed sinclair writer: ed sinclair stars: viv moore, dave tomlinson reviews 1 user ad feedback editors' picks: our favorite things from this week imdb editors highlight the stories, faces, and trailers that had us buzzing this week. what caught your eye? check out our picks from the week around the web &nbsp;|&nbsp; powered by zergnet connect with imdb photos add image add an image do you have any images for this title? edit cast credited cast: viv moore ... newsreader 1 dave tomlinson ... newsreader 2 see full cast&nbsp;&raquo; edit storyline add full plot | add synopsis genres: documentary parents guide: add content advisory for parents&nbsp;&raquo; edit details country: canada language: arabic | english release date: 30 september 2006 (canada) see more&nbsp;&raquo; box office budget: cad&nbsp;160,000 (estimated) see more&nbsp;&raquo; company credits show detailed company contact information on imdbpro&nbsp;&raquo; technical specs color: color see full technical specs&nbsp;&raquo; frequently asked questions this faq is empty. add the first question. user reviews &nbsp; a lebanese-canadian woman&#39;s personal journey tells the inspirational story of two child victims of the war in iraq. 31 may 2007 | by admin-436 (wales) &ndash; see all my reviews lost innocents: the children of war is the personal journey of a lebanese canadian survivor of war intent on discovering what, if anything is being done to aid the countless children still victimized by the most recent war in iraq.her travels take her from canada to england, and kuwait city where she meets the doctors, politicians and activists who made the daring decision to airlift a dying twelve year-old boy out of a war-torn baghdad neighbourhood. that one act of kindness sparked a massive humanitarian movement that eventually involved the rescue of thousands of physically and emotionally damaged children and thrust the life-or-death struggle of little ali abbas into the international spotlight.after losing both of his arms, his parents, and twenty-two family members in a missile attack that supposedly went astray, ali abbas is now forging a new life in england under the specialist recovery care of the limbless association. he is joined by his best friend ahmed himself a survivor of an internationally prohibited cluster-bomb attack that claimed the life of his thirteen year-old sister and left him with only one hand and leg. their painful recollections are the stuff of nightmares and yet, as they enter their mid-teens, it seems they are able to cope with all that has happened to them.for many iraqi children, the world has come to their rescue: to sponsor, adopt or raise money for expensive surgical treatments. but many more children have nothing but grief and struggle ahead of them, trapped in a country that is still politically restless and unsafe. for ali, the media has remained a microscopic lens over his shoulder, trained on his every movement and every word. as he grows into adulthood, what role does he see himself playing in the never-ending dilemma that is the middle east? but throughout it all, ali and ahmed&#39;s stories remain unique. their remarkable resilience in the face of extreme personal tragedy exposes the strength of a child&#39;s spirit and the breadth and limitless nature of human compassion. 0 of 0 people found this review helpful.&nbsp; was this review helpful to you? yes no review this title | see one user review&nbsp;&raquo; getting started | contributor zone&nbsp;&raquo; contribute to this page edit page write review create a character page for: newsreader 1 newsreader 2 ----------- more... create &raquo; ? &nbsp; imdb everywhere find showtimes, watch trailers, browse photos, track your watchlist and rate your favorite movies and tv shows on your phone or tablet! imdb mobile site follow imdb on home top rated movies box office tv coming soon site index search in theaters contact us register news press room advertising jobs imdbpro box office mojo withoutabox conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads copyright &copy; 1990-2017 imdb.com, inc. an amazon.com company. amazon affiliates amazon video watch movies &tv online prime video unlimited streamingof movies & tv amazon germany buy movies ondvd & blu-ray amazon italy buy movies ondvd & blu-ray amazon france buy movies ondvd & blu-ray amazon india buy movie andtv show dvds dpreview digitalphotography audible downloadaudio books 