 dadetown (1995) - imdb imdb more all titles tv episodes names companies keywords characters quotes bios plots movies, tv & showtimes movies in theaters showtimes & tickets latest trailers coming soon release calendar top rated movies top rated indian movies most popular movies charts & trends box office oscar winners most popular by genre tv & video imdb tv on tonight top rated tv shows most popular tv shows watch now on amazon dvd & blu-ray special features imdb picks scary good amazon originals star wars on imdb celebs, events & photos celebs born today celebrity news most popular celebs photos latest stills latest posters photos we love events awards central oscars golden globes sundance cannes comic-con emmy awards venice film festival toronto film festival festival central tribeca all events news & community latest headlines ‘house of cards’ creator beau willimon heading to hulu for mars series 2 hours ago melissa mccarthy to star in stx's puppet thriller 'the happytime murders' 17 hours ago paris jackson joins amazon’s david oyelowo thriller in film debut 16 hours ago news top news movie news tv news celebrity news indie news community contributor zone polls watchlist your watchlist the leading information resource for the entertainment industry find industry contacts &amp; talent representation manage your photos, credits, &amp; more showcase yourself on imdb &amp; amazon go to imdbpro | help sign in with facebook other sign in options there was an error trying to load your rating for this title. some parts of this page won't work property. please reload or try later. full cast and crew | trivia | user reviews | imdbpro | more less share x share facebook twitter e-mail check in 0check in x beta i'm watching this! keep track of everything you watch; tell your friends. error please try again! added to your check-ins. view check in details full cast and crew release dates official sites box office/business company credits filming locations technical specs literature storyline taglines plot summary synopsis plot keywords parents guide related items newsdesk external sites opinion awards faq user reviews user ratings external reviews metacritic reviews photo & video photo gallery trailers and videos did you know? trivia goofs crazy credits quotes alternate versions connections soundtracks 7.2/10 192 10 user 10 critic rate this dadetown&nbsp;(1995) 1h 33min | drama | 18 september 1996 (usa) interviews in the michael moore/&quot;roger and me&quot; tradition examine life in small-town america, class conflicts and the collapse of an upstate new york community, dadetown, when the town's ... see full summary&nbsp;&raquo; director: russ hexter writers: russ hexter, john housley stars: jim pryor, stephen beals, fred worrell | see full cast & crew&nbsp;&raquo; reviews 10 user | 10 critic ad feedback sci-fi and fantasy tv series based on novels "american gods" check out our list of recent genre series that have gone from page to screen. check out the list around the web &nbsp;|&nbsp; powered by zergnet create a list&nbsp;&raquo; user lists related lists from imdb users favorite films a list of 745 titles created 21&nbsp;apr&nbsp;2012 &nbsp; 2013: watched films (recent and older) a list of 138 titles created 06&nbsp;jan&nbsp;2013 &nbsp; top films a list of 795 titles created 28&nbsp;aug&nbsp;2014 &nbsp; &lt;400 a list of 219 titles created 9&nbsp;months&nbsp;ago &nbsp; 1990-1999 watchlist a list of 167 titles created 1&nbsp;month&nbsp;ago &nbsp; see all related lists&nbsp;&raquo; connect with imdb share this rating title: dadetown (1995) 7.2/10 want to share imdb's rating on your own site? use the html below. you must be a registered user to use the imdb rating plugin. login show html view more styles photos add image add an image do you have any images for this title? edit cast credited cast: jim pryor ... tom nickenback stephen beals ... barlitz, dan fred worrell ... ed hubbell edith meeks joseph leone ... louis -man at bar rest of cast listed alphabetically: bill garrison valerie gilbert ken klamm ... bob arkin jerry lewkowitz ... jerry--arguing employee richard stillman ... luca see full cast&nbsp;&raquo; edit storyline interviews in the michael moore/"roger and me" tradition examine life in small-town america, class conflicts and the collapse of an upstate new york community, dadetown, when the town's once-prosperous factory, reduced to the manufacture of paper clips and staples, finally closes. facing massive unemployment, the blue-collar dadetown residents next find yuppies moving into town to staff the local division of a big computer outfit. written by bhob stewart &lt;bhob2@earthlink.net&gt; plot summary | add synopsis plot keywords: interview | factory | small town | park | layoff |&nbsp;see all (14)&nbsp;&raquo; genres: drama parents guide: add content advisory for parents&nbsp;&raquo; edit details country: usa language: english release date: 18 september 1996 (usa) see more&nbsp;&raquo; company credits production co: big ol' productions see more&nbsp;&raquo; show detailed company contact information on imdbpro&nbsp;&raquo; technical specs runtime: 93 min sound mix: stereo color: black and white | color see full technical specs&nbsp;&raquo; edit did you know? connections references naked city&nbsp;(1958) see more &raquo; frequently asked questions this faq is empty. add the first question. user reviews a remarkably well-made small film, but one wonders what was the point 14 june 2000 | by sheldy3 (los angeles, california) &ndash; see all my reviews &quot;dadetown&quot;, the first and sadly only film directed and co-written by russ hexter, is a pseudo-documentary which tells the story of a small, seemingly idyllic town whose residents are upended with the introduction of a high-tech company (and the influx of their highly educated workforce) while also dealing with the closure of a factory that had traditionally been the backbone of the town.the movie plays as a documentary - a documentary that we've seen before in movies such barbara koppel's &quot;american dream&quot;. as the film goes on, however, one senses that something's not all right in &quot;dadetown&quot;. some of the &quot;residents&quot; seem to be a little too camera-ready and even a bit rehearsed. events seem to happen awfully quickly and coincidentally. and the camera has a rather remarkable ability to always be in the right place at the right time...sometimes even two places at once.the viewer soon realizes that what they're looking at is not an actual documentary, but what seems to be a staged documentary. remarkably well-done, more or less convincingly acted, and occasionally engrossing, but still...fake. which brought up the question as i was watching this film...why was it made?the movie, in a capsule, presents us the seemingly perfect all-american small town. a high-tech computer firm, api, decides to move their headquarters there (thanks in part to a generous tax break engineered by the de facto town leader for the past 34 years, bill parsons) and quickly a divide is formed between the employees of api and the locals who were there before them. the situation remains tense, but harmless until the other major employer of the town, &quot;garman metals&quot; begins laying off workers. soon, many in the town begin blaming api and random acts of vandalism occur.even more non-sensically, some of the metal workers decide to strike - a strange maneuver for a company looking to lay off workers anyway. the personalities and emotions that boil over due to these circumstances is what makes up the heart of this film.unfortunately, because the film isn't real, it's hard to muster up a lot of energy or emotions for what's going on. too many of the characters are either cliche's (the angry town workers who as things go bad seem to be unable to do much more than drink beer, hunt and blame minorities) or just a little too over the top (the spokesman for api is just not quite right and is one of the giveaways that the film isn't real) or just not diverse enough.that's not to say some of the characters aren't fascinating, most notably bill parsons, the sort of grandfatherly wise-man who seems to be single-handedly guiding the towns future, even from beyond his grave.still, i wonder what hexter's motivation was for making this film. as mentioned before, similar stories that were actually real events have already been told so he wasn't really shedding new light on anything we haven't seen before. the film itself doesn't seem to making an underlying point about anything in particular, other than change is inevitable. and the truth of the matter is that the course of events in the film are so predictable that it gets a little boring after a while.i have read that one of hexter's motivations was to show how often documentarians can come into a situation as a supposed impartial observer, but actually have an impact in the events that occur. certainly that's a worthwhile subject, but this film doesn't show that in any way. everything that happened, the moving in of one company, the departure of another, the inevitable class distinctions and hardships, clearly would have happened in a town this size because they've been happening in towns across america for the past 20 years and a camera hasn't always been there to record it.in the end, however, one has to salute the audacity of hexter to make this kind of film. there were times when hexter could have made this film darker and more comedic, or put it in the realm of situations becoming more and more absurd as the film goes on (such as in larry david's hbo show). but he never wavers. he is going to play this straight until the very very end. and i must admit, even as the film continued on and i was 95% sure it was a farce, every now and then something would happen that i'd start to doubt myself and i'd think that maybe, just maybe, this is real. but alas, the credits role and that lingering 5% hope that you hadn't just wasted the past 90 minutes on a beautiful, brilliant, ambitious but ultimately pointless film, fade away as the &quot;written by&quot; and &quot;cast&quot; names roll by.in the end, this film seems to be a bit of an ego project for russ hexter...an almost &quot;i knew i could do it&quot; . still, this is a fascinating film if just for its concept and the acting by the apparently all non-actors is remarkably good and usually quite convincing. russ hexter looks to have possessed a world of talent and a keen understanding of how documentaries, and just film in general, needs to and should look. 1 of 2 people found this review helpful.&nbsp; was this review helpful to you? yes no review this title | see all 10 user reviews&nbsp;&raquo; getting started | contributor zone&nbsp;&raquo; contribute to this page edit page write review create a character page for: tom nickenback barlitz, dan ed hubbell louis -man at bar bob arkin jerry--arguing employee luca ----------- more... create &raquo; ? &nbsp; imdb everywhere find showtimes, watch trailers, browse photos, track your watchlist and rate your favorite movies and tv shows on your phone or tablet! imdb mobile site follow imdb on home top rated movies box office tv coming soon site index search in theaters contact us register news press room advertising jobs imdbpro box office mojo withoutabox conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads copyright &copy; 1990-2017 imdb.com, inc. an amazon.com company. amazon affiliates amazon video watch movies &tv online prime video unlimited streamingof movies & tv amazon germany buy movies ondvd & blu-ray amazon italy buy movies ondvd & blu-ray amazon france buy movies ondvd & blu-ray amazon india buy movie andtv show dvds dpreview digitalphotography audible downloadaudio books 