 dead man walking (1995) - imdb imdb more all titles tv episodes names companies keywords characters quotes bios plots movies, tv & showtimes movies in theaters showtimes & tickets latest trailers coming soon release calendar top rated movies top rated indian movies most popular movies charts & trends box office oscar winners most popular by genre tv & video imdb tv on tonight top rated tv shows most popular tv shows watch now on amazon dvd & blu-ray special features imdb picks scary good amazon originals star wars on imdb celebs, events & photos celebs born today celebrity news most popular celebs photos latest stills latest posters photos we love events awards central oscars golden globes sundance cannes comic-con emmy awards venice film festival toronto film festival festival central tribeca all events news & community latest headlines melissa mccarthy to star in stx's puppet thriller 'the happytime murders' 16 hours ago paris jackson joins amazon’s david oyelowo thriller in film debut 15 hours ago clive owen, tom felton, george mackay join daisy ridley’s ‘ophelia’ 19 hours ago news top news movie news tv news celebrity news indie news community contributor zone polls watchlist your watchlist the leading information resource for the entertainment industry find industry contacts &amp; talent representation manage your photos, credits, &amp; more showcase yourself on imdb &amp; amazon go to imdbpro | help sign in with facebook other sign in options there was an error trying to load your rating for this title. some parts of this page won't work property. please reload or try later. full cast and crew | trivia | user reviews | imdbpro | more less share x share facebook twitter e-mail check in 0check in x beta i'm watching this! keep track of everything you watch; tell your friends. error please try again! added to your check-ins. view check in details full cast and crew release dates official sites box office/business company credits filming locations technical specs literature storyline taglines plot summary synopsis plot keywords parents guide related items newsdesk external sites opinion awards faq user reviews user ratings external reviews metacritic reviews photo & video photo gallery trailers and videos did you know? trivia goofs crazy credits quotes alternate versions connections soundtracks 7.6/10 75,914 194 user 76 critic rate this dead man walking&nbsp;(1995) r | 2h 2min | crime, drama | 2 february 1996 (usa) a nun, while comforting a convicted killer on death row, empathizes with both the killer and his victim's families. director: tim robbins writers: helen prejean (book) (as sister helen prejean c.s.j.), tim robbins stars: susan sarandon, sean penn, robert prosky | see full cast & crew&nbsp;&raquo; 80 metascore from metacritic.com reviews 194 user | 76 critic popularity 4,171 ( 892) ad feedback editors' picks: our favorite things from this week imdb editors highlight the stories, faces, and trailers that had us buzzing this week. what caught your eye? check out our picks from the week related news lois smith-starrer “marjorie prime” acquired by filmrise 31 march 2017 12:02 am, +08:00 | women and hollywood "in cold blood" 50th anniversary screening, l.a. march 22 19 march 2017 8:52 am, +08:00 | cinemaretro.com susan sarandon joins ray donovan cast for season 5 14 march 2017 2:00 am, +08:00 | flickeringmyth see all 330 related articles&nbsp;&raquo; around the web &nbsp;|&nbsp; powered by zergnet create a list&nbsp;&raquo; user lists related lists from imdb users 25 best female performances of the last 20 years a list of 25 titles created 05&nbsp;oct&nbsp;2010 &nbsp; filme vaz 2013 a list of 45 titles created 23&nbsp;feb&nbsp;2013 &nbsp; original top 250 a list of 30 titles created 22&nbsp;sep&nbsp;2013 &nbsp; christian movies a list of 47 titles created 15&nbsp;jan&nbsp;2014 &nbsp; netflix a list of 41 titles created 17&nbsp;jan&nbsp;2015 &nbsp; see all related lists&nbsp;&raquo; connect with imdb share this rating title: dead man walking (1995) 7.6/10 want to share imdb's rating on your own site? use the html below. you must be a registered user to use the imdb rating plugin. login show html view more styles user polls best films about remorse and atonement best movie to have been the imdb top 250 #250 original top 250 inspirational women's history humanitarian biopics oscar-winning heroes - part i: real people the best &quot;man&quot; see more polls &raquo; won 1 oscar. another 20 wins &amp; 19 nominations. see more awards&nbsp;&raquo; photos 59 photos | 330 news articles &raquo; edit cast cast overview, first billed only: susan sarandon ... sister helen prejean sean penn ... matthew poncelet robert prosky ... hilton barber raymond j. barry ... earl delacroix r. lee ermey ... clyde percy celia weston ... mary beth percy lois smith ... helen's mother scott wilson ... chaplain farley roberta maxwell ... lucille poncelet margo martindale ... sister colleen barton heyman ... captain beliveau steve boles ... sgt. neal trapp nesbitt blaisdell ... warden hartman ray aranha ... luis montoya larry pine ... guy gilardi see full cast&nbsp;&raquo; edit storyline a convicted murderer on death row and the nun who befriends him. through the portrayal of finely drawn characters and their interactions as the days, hours, and minutes tick down to the condemned man's execution, powerful emotions are unleashed. while matthew poncelet and sister prejean desperately try to gain a stay of execution from the governor or the courts, scenes are intercut from the brutal crime, gradually revealing the truth about the events that transpired. in addition to her temporal help, the nun also tries to reach out spiritually and assist as a guide to salvation. written by tad dibbern &lt;dibbern_d@a1.mscf.upenn.edu&gt; plot summary | add synopsis plot keywords: nun | solitary confinement | death | execution | visit |&nbsp;see all (180)&nbsp;&raquo; genres: crime&nbsp;| drama motion picture rating (mpaa) rated r for a depiction of a rape and murder | see all certifications&nbsp;&raquo; parents guide: view content advisory&nbsp;&raquo; edit details country: uk | usa language: english release date: 2 february 1996 (usa) see more&nbsp;&raquo; also known as: la dernière marche see more&nbsp;&raquo; filming locations: angola, louisiana, usa see more&nbsp;&raquo; box office budget: $11,000,000 (estimated) gross: $39,025,000 (usa) see more&nbsp;&raquo; company credits production co: havoc, polygram filmed entertainment, working title films see more&nbsp;&raquo; show detailed company contact information on imdbpro&nbsp;&raquo; technical specs runtime: 122 min sound mix: dolby digital color: color aspect ratio: 1.85 : 1 see full technical specs&nbsp;&raquo; edit did you know? trivia after being told that she would be played in the film by "a famous actress from thelma &amp; louise (1991)", sister helen prejean was introduced to susan sarandon and said "thank god, she's louise." see more &raquo; goofs matthew says that they shaved his left leg in case they couldn't find a vein. in subsequent shots, it has clearly not been shaved. see more &raquo; quotes matthew poncelet: hitler got things done! see more &raquo; crazy credits this film was edited on old fashioned machines. this credit was inspired by john ottman, editor of 'the usual suspects'. ottman had wanted to put "edited on a piece of s*** steenbeck" at the end of his movie, but settled for the more subtle "edited on film". tim robbins heard about this, and decided to put his own variation of the line on the credits of 'dead man walking.' see more &raquo; connections referenced in charmed: dead man dating&nbsp;(1998) see more &raquo; soundtracks sacred love performed by the dusing singers soloist gale limansky written by georgi sviridov arranged by gil robbins see more &raquo; frequently asked questions q: is 'dead man walking' based on a book? q: how does the movie end? q: how much sex, violence, and profanity are in this movie? see more (spoiler alert!)&nbsp;&raquo; user reviews &nbsp; outstanding performance by susan sarandon 18 november 2001 | by jhclues (salem, oregon) &ndash; see all my reviews in a world in which debatable and misunderstood subjects can be listed endlessly, this powerful 1995 film takes on one at the top of that list; moreover, it does it objectively and realistically, and with a sensibility and sensitivity that makes it a truly great film by anyone's measuring stick. and to add some irony to it all, even the subject matter of this film has been widely misunderstood, as it is wrongly perceived that this is a film about the pros and cons of the death penalty; it is not. at the heart of `dead man walking,' directed by tim robbins, is a subject that in reality is possibly the most misunderstood of all, and with good reason, because it just may be the hardest thing there is for a human being to really-- and truly-- understand. and it is what this film is actually all about: forgiveness. real forgiveness; not excusing a heinous crime or the perpetrator thereof-- not saying that what's happened is okay-- but finding the strength to go on, and to do so by choosing life. director/screenwriter tim robbins has crafted and delivered a faithful adaptation of the novel by sister helen prejean, in which she discusses her involvement with the death-row inmates to whom over the years she has ministered her faith in god. as chronicled in the film, what for her was to become a lifelong pursuit of not only justice, but human dignity, began with a simple letter from a death-row inmate at the louisiana state prison at angola. sentenced to death for rape and murder, matthew poncelet (sean penn) was reaching out to anyone who would listen, when his letter ended up in the hands of sister prejean (susan sarandon), who soon found herself venturing into a territory of which she had absolutely no knowledge or experience. and robbins has successfully captured sister prejean's emotional and turbulent journey succinctly, while managing to keep it devoid of any maudlin sentimentality, which makes it not only real, credible and believable, but makes it a poignant and thoroughly emotionally involving experience for the audience. through the medium of the cinema, what was once a personal, significant emotional experience for sister prejean, becomes one for everyone who sees this film, as well. for her soul-stirring, impassioned portrayal of sister prejean, susan sarandon deservedly won the oscar for best actress. sensitive and fraught with emotional depth, her performance is incredibly touching and real, especially in the way in which she conveys sister prejean's underlying natural fragility and vulnerability, which she adamantly tempered with the toughness she needed to carry on with her endeavors on behalf of poncelet (and in reality, a total of five since she began). whatever your point of view regarding the matters examined in this film, sister prejean is without question an individual of heroic proportions, which sarandon exquisitely personifies here; and she does it without resorting to any superfluous melodramatics, but rather by keeping it real, by subtly and humbly exploring the humanity of the person in a very believable expression of characterization. it's an extraordinary performance, arguably the best of sarandon's brilliant career. turning in a career-best performance, as well, is sean penn, who was nominated for best actor for his portrayal of poncelet (he lost out to nicolas cage, who won for his performance in `leaving las vegas). perfect for the part in every way, penn has quite simply never been better, before or since. he effectively presents poncelet as a real person, rather than as an overblown caricature of a monster capable of perpetrating the crimes depicted here. not that it makes poncelet any less despicable; just the opposite, in fact. it makes it genuinely disconcerting to be faced with the fact that someone who looks like a guy who could live next door to you could be capable of such things. and that's the strength of penn's performance-- it's so disturbingly real, presented with depth and nuance; you have but to look into his eyes to find the imperfections of a troubled soul. a terrific performance, and -- as good as cage was in `vegas'-- penn should have received the oscar for it. in another stand-out performance, raymond j. barry is memorable in a supporting role as earl delacroix, father of one of poncelet's victims. with limited screen time, he nevertheless develops his character in such a way that enables you to empathize with him, as well as with sister prejean, as it is through him that we are given some insight into just how complex and seemingly tenuous her position is, at least on the surface. barry presents delacroix in such a way that gives the necessary balance and perspective to the story, which is ultimately extremely effective and helps to underscore the message of the film. the supporting cast includes r. lee emery (clyde percy), celia weston (mary beth percy), lois smith (helen's mother), scott wilson (chaplin farley), roberta maxwell (lucille poncelet), margo martindale (sister colleen) and jack black (craig poncelet). it is doubtful that this film will change anyone's mind one way or another about the death penalty, but that was never the intention; what was intended, was to make a thought-provoking, emotionally involving film, which is exactly what robbins has accomplished with `dead man walking.' regardless of your personal point of view, this film will have an impact, and hopefully will open some minds to the true nature of forgiveness. for, as we see through the character of earl delacroix, true forgiveness is not something one merely decides to do, but is a task that can become a lifetime's work. and it's possibly one of the hardest things in life to effectively accomplish; and you come away from this film with an appreciation for individuals like sister prejean, who has selflessly dedicated her life to helping those in need, and to filmmakers like robbins and sarandon for bringing her to life for millions of people who otherwise would never have known her. i rate this one 10/10. 45 of 72 people found this review helpful.&nbsp; was this review helpful to you? yes no review this title | see all 194 user reviews&nbsp;&raquo; getting started | contributor zone&nbsp;&raquo; contribute to this page edit page write review create a character page for: helen's mother chaplain farley sister colleen captain beliveau sgt. neal trapp warden hartman luis montoya guy gilardi ----------- more... create &raquo; ? &nbsp; imdb everywhere find showtimes, watch trailers, browse photos, track your watchlist and rate your favorite movies and tv shows on your phone or tablet! imdb mobile site follow imdb on home top rated movies box office tv coming soon site index search in theaters contact us register news press room advertising jobs imdbpro box office mojo withoutabox conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads copyright &copy; 1990-2017 imdb.com, inc. an amazon.com company. amazon affiliates amazon video watch movies &tv online prime video unlimited streamingof movies & tv amazon germany buy movies ondvd & blu-ray amazon italy buy movies ondvd & blu-ray amazon france buy movies ondvd & blu-ray amazon india buy movie andtv show dvds dpreview digitalphotography audible downloadaudio books 